# square-frontend
The frontend client for SQuARE.  
User can ask questions and receive answers.
Developer can create an account and manage existing or create new skills for others to use.

This project is build with the [Vue Framework](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/index.html).  
Styling is done with [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/introduction/) and [BootstrapVue components](https://bootstrap-vue.js.org/docs/components/) are used heavily for this. 

## Project structure
The project structure was mostly autogenerated with VueCLI and should be familar to anyone who has worked with Vue before.

* public: the website before Vue injection  
* src: the Vue project  
    * App.vue, main.js: Entry points  
    * api: API calls to the backend server or to skills  
    * router, store: Vue router and Vuex store  
    * views: Main Vue components that serve as pages  
    * components: Vue components used in views or other components
* .env* : Environment variables, see https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/mode-and-env.html#environment-variables

<br/>
## Detailed description of the source directory
### src/api /index.js 

A central location that contains all of the API requests that call the API server in backend. The API calls is done with Axios a built-in HTTP client module. All API requests should be registered here and be imported from here to reduce boilerplate in code rather than writing the request directly in the view page.

### src/components  

contains all of the reusable template components that can be rendered in different pages (e.g navigation bar)

### src/components/results

contains reusable templates to render different type of query results or also called answers. The template will create a slot for an answer.

### src/router/index.js

A central location where all of the routing between URLs to a page (also called view or component) are defined. When a new page is created a path to this page shoul must be registered here


### Routing Guidelines 
__Homepage__(URL: /#/)  
* a page for question answering   
 
__Sign in/ Register pages__ (URL: /#/login, /#/register)
* uses JWT  

__Forgot Password__ (URL: /#/forgotPassword)
* send request to reset password, a reset email with a temporal token (60mins) will be sent to user  

__Email Confirmation__
* this page is called when the user click on the reset link in the password reset email
* if user don’t reset password in 60 mins, the token got expired and they got to send the password reset request again .   

__Reset Password__ (URL: /#/resetPassword/:token)  
* user can set new password here  

__Skills page__ (URL: /#/skills)
* login required
* list of all available skills with information such as whether the skill is published
* create new skill or delete skills  

__Skill page__ (URL: /#/skill/:id)  
* shows basic skill info: name, description skill status (endpoint available? skill published?)
* edit skill information   

__Train page__ (URL: /#/train/:id) 
* page to upload training data for a skill  


### src/store/index.js
A central file to defined all of the states that are used in the app, which can latter be used in the views. This file implemented the store concept in Vuejs, different components shared a state, and there are certain actions bind to a state change. When a state changed, the store raises events to fire the predefined actions. 

### src/views/…
This directory stores all of the different views /HTML pages for the app
